There's one crucial thing you can do to
completely upgrade your build. Stop
planting trees and start building trees.
Having custom trees in your world is one
of the easiest ways to bring life to
your projects. A great example is this
cliff side I built in the related video,
which literally took me over 23 hours of
solid gameplay. I'm proud of how it came
out, but without vegetation, it still
feels lifeless. But as soon as I started
adding trees, the area literally came to
life. Just looking at the before and
after makes the difference super
apparent. When it comes to building
trees, I first focus on establishing a
great branch structure by using a
combination of various spruce components
and mud bricks and glass paint. The
glass works almost like a debug stick,
allowing you to connect the walls
together to form smooth curves in the
trunk and limbs. From there, the key is
to gradient the leaves with the darker
leaves on the bottom and lighter leaves
on top where the sun would hit. You also
got to make sure not to overdo it with
the leaves, especially on the bottom.
When you stand below a tree in real
life, it's easy to see the branch
structure and all the patches of
sunlight peeking through. Only from
above do they appear fluffy and full. I
have a rule in my world that every
single tree must be completely unique as
in nature. No copy pasting and rotating
the same tree all over the place.